Welcome to English Your Way. Today's topic is 5 minutes from the final. Then the champion struck.Here's a quick preview.Pointo Kaisets.Vardo Kapujan, Kesode, England, Doto, Aruzen, Chinga, Tyson Masta.Saiva Saigon made Quinto ka not zuk tenka estena subande oka nagarenga karimas.Here are today's key phrases, one shot on target.Shot on target.2 Go ahead, go ahead.Three. Come on, come on.4 Go out.Go out.Five Turn the game around. Turn the game around.Now the full story.Connoisseur Batanova, soka soko kikito temi masho.England played Argentina and Atlanta on July 15. On June 2026. It was a World Cup game. The teams already knew each other from many big games. The first half was quiet, but both teams fought hard. Neither team had a shot on target before halftime. England went ahead in the 55th minute. Rodgers sent the ball across the front of goal. Gordon got to the ball and scored.England had not reached a World Cup final since 1966.The team put more players at the back with 5 minutes left.Ingurandoga sensei Shi shuba nuva mamorio katamete masta konori dua saigo madets choka.But Messi changed the game in the 85th minute. He passed to Enzo Fernandez. Enzo hit a very hard shot into the goal. The score was now 11.The referee then added more time. Messi sent the ball across goal from the right. Lataro Martinez put it into the goal with his head. Lataro had started the game on the bench.Argentina went from losing to winning in only 7 minutes. The final score was England 12 Argentina.Argentina will now play Spain in the final. It can win 2 World Cup titles in a row. England went out after coming very close to the final.Tokens Tanova, Messi, Devari, Mason, Destanga, Konoke, Shiniva, Machika, Inaka, Kareni Masta Soste Shuba no Sai.Kocara sonona Kamio mitekimas..1 Messi made the goals haven.Messi was 39 years old in this game. He was also Argentina's captain. Messi made two assists that night. He did not take the final shot for either goal. He helped Enzo by finding him in a good place. He helped Lautaro with a good ball from the right. Messi showed that a pass can be as important as a goal .2. The teams made different changes. England took Rice and some other players off. It moved more players near its own goal. England wanted to keep its.Lead Argentina did the opposite. It wanted another goal. Argentina took defender Tagliafico off in the 81st minute. Striker Lotaro Martinez came on in his place. His goals sent Argentina to the final. England made changes to defend. Argentina made changes to score.Monsieur Mizuka agoro chimerico tonaku mikata I caste CIO Rokasi masta.So stay mamorini haita ingrandito semeni data are resenting.Sangonyi conociano pointo ego de fricarimas.Argentina turned the game around in 7 minutes and ended England's dream.Messi did not score, but he made both late goals happen. The two teams chose different paths and this decided the game.