Welcome to English your way、 today's topic UK plans。midnight social media break for teenagers午前0時。SNSにおやすみ。英国が夜更かしスクロールへ静かな消灯。Here's。A quick preview。ポイント解説。英国政府が、十代の若者とSNSの使い方をめぐる新しい計画を発表しました。夜のSNS利用を見直すことで、若者の睡眠を守ろうという狙いです。この仕組みは、本当に行動を変えられるのでしょうか？Here are today's key phrases one opt out。酸化適用を断るopt out。Two covered apps、規制対象のアプリcovered apps。Three urge to watchみたい。という衝動。urge to watch。Four personalized feed個人向けに選ばれた投稿欄personalized feed。Five digital switch off period。デジタル利用の停止時間帯。digital switch off period。Now、 the full story。まずは、夜になるとSNSがどう変わるのかに注目して聞いてみましょう。Social media in the UK may say good night AT midnight the British government。shared A new plan on July fifteenth。IT is for people aged sixteen and seventeen the government calls IT A digital switch off period IT would Run from midnight to six am during that time apps under the plan would not open AT first。This first setting is called A default notifications would stop auto play would stop too this tool starts the next video on its own the apps would also stop feeds that pick posts for each person these feeds can Keep people scrolling for A long time the government plans to start IT in spring。twenty twenty Seven。ここまでで、深夜にはSNSのいくつかの機能が自動で止まる計画だとわかりました。では、利用者はこの設定を自分で変えられるのでしょうか。But IT would not be A full ban teenagers could change the setting then they could use the apps late AT night。the government wants this first setting to slow teenagers down。they would need to stop and make A clear choice this small step may break the just one more habit IT may help more teenagers put down their phones and sleep。設定は自分で変えられるので、これは完全な禁止ではありません。それでも、最初から使えない状態にしておくだけで行動は変わるのでしょうか。ここからは二つの実験を見ていきます。One families found the night rule、 easiest to use in one test。three hundred and nine families joined IT tested three ways to cut screen time。families said the night rule was easiest to use the rule lasted from nine PM to Seven am Again and Again、 family said this rule helped them sleep better still some teenagers moved their screen time instead。They used screens、 just before the rule began or after IT ended so the rule did not make the screen time problem。GO away。Point two first settings can change what Children do offcom ran another test？with Children for one Group A safer setting was on by default IT stopped suggestions for posts that could hurt them around Seven intend Children kept that setting for another group、 no setting was chosen first around half。then chose the safer setting Children did not have to Keep IT。Still the first setting changed、 what many Children did this helps explain why the UK chose A plan without A full band。夜のルールだけで全て解決するわけではありません。でも、最初の設定を変えるだけで、人の行動が変わる可能性はありそうです。最後に、今日のニュースのポイントを英語で聞いてみましょう。In one LINE the UK hopes more teenagers will Keep the night setting and simply GO to sleep。this is not A full ban teenagers can still turn IT off、 but even A simple first setting can change what people do？