EUGENE ARAM.

EXECUTED FOR MURDER.


We are now arrived at that period which brings to our view perhaps the
most remarkable trial in our whole Calendar. The offender was a man of
extraordinary endowments and of high education, and therefore little to
be suspected of committing so foul a crime as that proved against him.

Much has been written upon the subject of this murder, and attempts have
been made, even of late years, to show the innocence of Aram. The
contents of the publications upon the subject would be sufficient of
themselves to fill our volumes; and it would be useless to republish
arguments, which, having had due circulation and due consideration, have
failed in their object, which was to convince the world that this
offender was the victim of prejudice, and fell an innocent sacrifice to
the laws of his country. We shall, therefore, abstain from giving this
case greater space in our Calendar than that to which it is entitled, as
well on account of the peculiarity of its nature, as of the great
interest which its mention has always excited. The peculiarities of the
case are twofold; first, the great talents of the offender, and
secondly, the extraordinary discovery of the perpetration of the murder,
and of the evidence which led to the conviction of the murderer. On the
former point, indeed, some seem to have entertained a doubt; for about
thirty years after his execution, his name being inserted among the
literary characters of the country, in the "Biographia Britannica," and
his high erudition being mentioned, a pamphlet was put forth,
complaining of this step on the part of the editors of that work, and
accusing them of a want of impartiality in affording their meed of
praise to Aram, and withholding it from Bishop Atherton, who also met
with an ignominious death. The charge was, however, answered more ably
than it was made; and as it may prove interesting to our readers, we
shall subjoin the refutation to the complaint, which appears distinctly
to support Aram's right to the character which was originally given to
him. It is said:--

"Objections are made to the admission of Eugene Aram into the Biographia
Britannica, and the exclusion of Bishop Atherton; but it appears to me
that the remarks on this subject are far from being just. The insertion
of Aram is objected to because he was a man of bad principles, and
terminated his life on the gallows; but it should be remembered that it
was never understood that in the Biographia Britannica the lives of
virtuous men only were to be recorded. In the old edition are the lives
of several persons who ended their days by the hands of the executioner.
Bonner was not a virtuous man, and yet was very properly inserted, as
well as Henry Cuff, who was executed at Tyburn in the reign of Queen
Elizabeth. As to Eugene Aram, it is truly said of him in the Biographia
Britannica, in the article objected to, that the progress he made in
literature, allowing for the little instruction he had received, may
justly be considered as astonishing; and that his powers of mind were
uncommonly great cannot reasonably be questioned. Eugene Aram possessed
talents and acquisitions that might have classed him among the most
respectable of human characters, if his moral qualities had been equal
to his intellectual. It was certainly the extraordinary talents and
acquirements of Eugene Aram which occasioned his introduction into the
Biographia; and I know that by persons of undoubted taste and judgment,
the account of him in that work has been thought a curious and
interesting article. His singular defence alone was well worthy of being
preserved in such a work.

"With respect to Bishop Atherton, he never had the least claim to
insertion in such a work as the Biographia Britannica, and was therefore
very properly omitted in the new edition. He was not in the least
distinguished for genius or learning; his merely being a bishop could
give him no just pretensions, and still less the unnatural crime for
which he suffered. The friends of Bishop Atherton say that his
reputation was suspected to have been destroyed, and his catastrophe
effected, more by the contrivance of a party than by the aggravated
guilt with which he was charged. If this were perfectly just, which
however may be reasonably questioned, it would not give Bishop Atherton
the least claim to insertion in the Biographia Britannica. Aram was
inserted on account of his uncommon talents and learning; but Atherton,
who was not distinguished for either, never had the least pretension to
be recorded in such a work."

The talents and abilities of this criminal, therefore, seem to be
undoubted; but that a man possessing powers of intellect so great should
have been guilty of such a crime as that which he committed, seems most
extraordinary.

Within the second peculiarity of the case will very properly come the
narrative of the life of its hero, as well as the circumstances
attending the commission of the crime and the discovery of its
perpetrator. A succinct description of the case will probably be more
intelligible than a detail of all the exceedingly minute circumstances
by which it was surrounded.

Eugene Aram was born at the village of Netherdale, in Yorkshire, in the
year 1704, of an ancient and highly respectable family; but although it
is shown by the chronicles that one of his ancestors served the office
of high sheriff in the reign of Edward the Third, it appears that at the
time of the birth of Eugene, the vicissitudes of fortune had so far
reduced its rank, that his father was compelled to support himself and
his children by working as a gardener in the house of Sir Edward
Blackett; although in that situation he was well employed and highly
respected. In his infancy, Aram's parents removed to the village of
Shelton, near Newby, in the same county; and when about six years old,
his father, having saved a small sum of money out of his weekly
earnings, purchased a small cottage at Bondgate, near Rippon. The first
indications of that singular genius which afterwards displayed itself in
so remarkable a manner in our hero, were given while his father was in
the service of Sir Edward. Eugene was employed as an attendant upon that
gentleman, and he early displayed a taste for literature, which was
fostered and supported by his indulgent master. His disposition was
solitary, and every leisure hour which presented itself to him was
devoted to retirement and study; and in the employment which good
fortune had bestowed upon him, ample opportunities were afforded him of
following the bent of his inclinations. He applied himself chiefly to
mathematics, and at the age of sixteen he had acquired a considerable
proficiency in them; but his kind and indulgent master dying about this
time, he was employed by his brother, Mr. Christopher Blackett, a
merchant in London, who took him into his service as book-keeper. This
was an occupation ill suited to his desires, and an attack of the small
pox having rendered his return to Yorkshire necessary, he did not
afterwards resume his employment in London, but at the invitation of his
father he remained at Newby, to pursue his studies. He now found that
the study of mathematics possessed but few charms; and the politer
subjects of poetry, history, and antiquities, next engaged his
attention. Every day served to increase the store of knowledge which he
possessed, and his fame as a scholar having now extended to his native
place, he was invited to take charge of a school there. The means of
study and of profit appeared to him to be thus united, and he
immediately accepted the offer which was made; and after a short time he
married a young woman of the village, to whom he appeared tenderly
attached. To this marriage, however, which proved unhappy, he attributed
all his subsequent misfortunes; but whether with truth or not, the
course of the narrative does not distinctly disclose. His deficiency in
the learned languages now struck him, and he immediately set about
conquering the difficulties which presented themselves in this new field
of research; and so rapid was his progress, that ere a year had passed,
he was able to read with ease the less difficult of the Latin and Greek
historians and poets. In the year 1734 an opportunity was afforded him
of adding a knowledge of the Hebrew language to his list of
acquirements; for in that year Mr. William Norton, of Knaresborough, a
gentleman of great talents, who had conceived a strong attachment
towards him, invited him to his house, and afforded him the means
necessary for pursuing its study. He continued in his situation in
Yorkshire until the year 1745, when he again visited London, and
accepted an engagement in the school of the Rev. Mr. Plainblanc, in
Piccadilly, as usher in Latin and writing; and, with this gentleman's
assistance, he acquired the knowledge of the French language. He was
afterwards employed as an usher and tutor in several different parts of
England; in the course of which, through his own exertions, he became
acquainted with heraldry and botany; and so great was his perseverance,
that he also learned the Chaldaic and Arabic languages. His next step
was to investigate the Celtic in all its dialects; and, having begun to
form collections, and make comparisons between the Celtic, the English,
the Latin, the Greek, and the Hebrew, and found a great affinity between
them, he resolved to proceed through all those languages, and to form a
comparative lexicon. But, amid these learned labours and inquiries, it
appears that he committed a crime which could not naturally have been
expected from a man of so studious a turn, as the inducement which led
him to it was merely the gain of wealth, of which the scholar is seldom
covetous.

On the 8th of February 1745, in conjunction with a man named Richard
Houseman, he committed the murder for which his life was afterwards
forfeited to the laws of his country. The object of this diabolical
crime was Daniel Clarke, a shoemaker, living at Knaresborough; and it
appears that this unfortunate man, having lately married a woman of a
good family, industriously circulated a report that his wife was
entitled to a considerable fortune, which he should soon receive. Aram
and Houseman, in consequence, conceiving hopes of procuring some
advantage from this circumstance, persuaded Clarke to make an
ostentatious show of his own riches, in order to induce his wife's
relations to give him that fortune of which he had boasted. It is not
impossible that in giving their subsequent victim this advice, they may
at the time have acted from a spirit of friendship, and without any intention
of committing that crime for which they afterwards received their
reward; but the belief that the design was already formed receives equal
confirmation from subsequent events.

Clarke, it seems, was easily induced to comply with a hint so agreeable
to his own desires; and he borrowed, and bought on credit, a large
quantity of silver plate, with jewels, watches, rings, &c. He told the
persons of whom he purchased, that a merchant in London had sent him an
order to buy such plate for exportation; and no doubt was entertained of
his credit till his sudden disappearance in February 1745, when it was
imagined that he had gone abroad, or at least to London, to dispose of
his ill-acquired property.

Whatever doubt may exist as to the original intention of the parties,
their object at this time is perfectly clear, and there can be no
hesitation in supposing that Aram and Houseman had at this time
determined to murder their dupe, in order to share the booty. On the
night of the 8th February 1745, they persuaded Clarke to take a walk
with them, in order to consult upon the proper method to dispose of the
effects; and, engaged in the discussion of this subject, they turned
into a field, at a small distance from the town, well known by the name
of St. Robert's Cave. On their arrival there, Aram and Clarke went over
a hedge towards the cave; and when they had got within six or seven
yards of it, Houseman (by the light of the moon) saw Aram strike Clarke
several times, and at length beheld him fall, but never saw him
afterwards. These were the facts immediately connected with the murder,
which were proved at the trial by Houseman, who was admitted King's
evidence; and, whatever were the subsequent proceedings of the parties
in respect of the body, they must remain a mystery.

The murderers, going home, shared Clarke's ill-gotten treasure, the half
of which Houseman concealed in his garden for a twelvemonth, and then
took it to Scotland, where he sold it. In the mean time Aram carried his
share to London, where he sold it to a Jew, and then returned to his
engagement with Mr. Plainblanc, in Piccadilly.

Fourteen years afterwards elapsed, and no tidings being received of
Aram, it was concluded that he was dead; and these fourteen years had
also elapsed without any clue being obtained to unravel the mystery of
the sudden disappearance of Clarke. The time at length came, however, at
which all the doubts which existed upon both subjects were to be solved.
In the year 1758, a labourer named Jones was employed to dig for stone
in St. Robert's Cave, in order to supply a limekiln at a place called
Thistle Hill, near Knaresborough; and having dug about two feet deep, he
found the bones of a human body, still knit together by the ligaments of
the joints. It had evidently been buried double; and there were
indications about it which could not but lead to the supposition that
some unfair means had been resorted to in order to deprive the living
being of life. The incident afforded good grounds for general curiosity
being raised, and general inquiry taking place; and hints were soon
thrown out that it might be the body of Clarke, whose unexpected
disappearance was still fresh in the memory of many, and whose continued
absence had been the subject of so much surprise. Suggestions of his
murder which had been thrown out by Aram's wife were called to mind, and
a coroner's inquest being held, she was summoned. By this time a general
impression prevailed that the remains found were those of Clarke, and
the testimony of Mrs. Aram greatly confirmed the idea which had gone
abroad. She deposed that she believed that Clarke had been murdered by
Houseman and her husband, and that they had acquired considerable booty
for the crime; but she was unable to give any account of her husband, or
to state whether he still was in existence or not. Inquiries being made,
however, Houseman was soon found; and on his being brought forward to be
examined, he exhibited the utmost confusion. The coroner desired that he
would take up one of the bones, probably with a view of seeing what
effect such a proceeding would produce; and upon his doing so, he showed
still further terror, and exclaimed, "This is no more Daniel Clarke's
bone than it is mine!" The suspicions which were already entertained of
his guilt were, in a great measure, confirmed by this observation; and
it was generally believed that he knew the precise spot where the real
remains of the murdered man were deposited, even if he had not been a
party to their interment. He was therefore strictly questioned; and
after many attempts at evasion, he said that Clarke was murdered by
Eugene Aram, and that his body was buried in St. Robert's Cave, but that
the head lay further to the right in the turn near the entrance of the
cavern than the spot where the skeleton produced was found. Search was
immediately made, and a skeleton was found in a situation corresponding
exactly with that which had been pointed out. In consequence of this
confession an inquiry was immediately set on foot for Aram, and after a
considerable time he was discovered, occupying the situation of usher in
a school at Lynn in Norfolk.

He was immediately apprehended and conveyed in custody to York Castle;
and on the 13th of August 1759, he was brought to trial at the assizes
before Mr. Justice Noel. The testimony of Houseman to the facts which we
have described, and of the other witnesses whose evidence was of a
corroborative character, was then adduced; and from the proof which was
given, it appeared that the share of plunder derived by the prisoner did
not exceed one hundred and fifty pounds.

Aram's defence was both ingenious and able, and would not have disgraced
any of the best lawyers of the day. It is a curious and interesting
address, and we subjoin it as affording the best criterion of the
talents of the prisoner which can well be adduced. He thus addressed the
court:--

"My Lord,--I know not whether it is of right or through some indulgence
of your lordship that I am allowed the liberty at this bar, and at this
time, to attempt a defence, incapable and uninstructed as I am to speak;
since, while I see so many eyes upon me, so numerous and awful a
concourse fixed with attention and filled with I know not what
expectancy, I labour not with guilt, my lord, but with perplexity; for
having never seen a court but this, being wholly unacquainted with law,
the customs of the bar, and all judiciary proceedings, I fear I shall be
so little capable of speaking with propriety in this place, that it
exceeds my hope if I shall be able to speak at all.

"I have heard, my lord, the indictment read, wherein I find myself
charged with the highest crime, with an enormity I am altogether
incapable of; a fact, to the commission of which there goes far more
insensibility of heart, more profligacy of morals, than ever fell to my
lot; and nothing possibly could have admitted a presumption of this
nature but a depravity not inferior to that imputed to me. However, as I
stand indicted at your lordship's bar, and have heard what is called
evidence adduced in support of such a charge, I very humbly solicit
your lordship's patience, and beg the hearing of this respectable
audience, while I, single and unskilful, destitute of friends and
unassisted by counsel, say something, perhaps like argument, in my
defence. I shall consume but little of your lordship's time: what I have
to say will be short; and this brevity, probably, will be the best part
of it: however, it is offered with all possible regard and the greatest
submission to your lordship's consideration, and that of this honourable
court.

"First, my lord, the whole tenor of my conduct in life contradicts every
particular of the indictment: yet had I never said this, did not my
present circumstances extort it from me, and seem to make it necessary.
Permit me here, my lord, to call upon malignity itself, so long and
cruelly busied in this prosecution, to charge upon me any immorality of
which prejudice was not the author. No, my lord, I concerted no schemes
of fraud, projected no violence, injured no man's person or property. My
days were honestly laborious, my nights intensely studious; and I humbly
conceive my notice of this, especially at this time, will not be thought
impertinent or unseasonable, but, at least, deserving some attention;
because, my lord, that any person, after a temperate use of life, a
series of thinking and acting regularly, and without one single
deviation from sobriety, should plunge into the very depth of profligacy
precipitately and at once, is altogether improbable and unprecedented,
and absolutely inconsistent with the course of things. Mankind is never
corrupted at once. Villany is always progressive, and declines from
right, step by step, till every regard of probity is lost, and every
sense of all moral obligation totally perishes.

"Again, my lord, a suspicion of this kind, which nothing but malevolence
could entertain and ignorance propagate, is violently opposed by my very
situation at that time with respect to health; for, but a little space
before, I had been confined to my bed, and suffered under a very long
and severe disorder, and was not able, for half a year together, so much
as to walk. The distemper left me indeed, yet slowly, and in part--but
so macerated, so enfeebled, that I was reduced to crutches; and so far
from being well about the time I am charged with this fact, I have
never, to this day, perfectly recovered. Could then a person in this
condition take anything into his head so unlikely, so extravagant?--I,
past the vigour of my age, feeble and valetudinary, with no inducement
to engage, no ability to accomplish, no weapon wherewith to perpetrate
such a deed, without interest, without power, without motive, without
means. Besides, it must needs occur to every one, that an action of this
atrocious nature is never heard of, but when its springs are laid open.
It appears that it was to support some indolence, or supply some luxury;
to satisfy some avarice, or oblige some malice; to prevent some real or
some imaginary want: yet I lay not under the influence of these. Surely,
my lord, I may, consistently with both truth and modesty, affirm thus
much; and none who have any veracity and knew me, will ever question
this.

"In the second place, the disappearance of Clarke is suggested as an
argument of his being dead; but the uncertainty of such an inference
from that, and the fallibility of all conclusions of such a sort from
such a circumstance, are too obvious and too notorious to require
instances; yet superseding many, permit me to produce a very recent one,
and that afforded by this Castle.

"In June 1757, William Thompson, for all the vigilance of this place,
in open daylight and double-ironed, made his escape, and,
notwithstanding an immediate inquiry set on foot, the strictest search,
and all advertisement, was never heard of since. If, then, Thompson got
off unseen, through all these difficulties, how very easy it was for
Clarke, when none of them opposed him! But what would be thought of a
prosecution commenced against any one seen last with Thompson?

"Permit me next, my lord, to observe a little upon the bones which have
been discovered. It is said (which perhaps is saying very far) that
these are the skeleton of a man. It is possible, indeed, it may; but is
there any certain known criterion which incontestably distinguishes the
sex in human bones? Let it be considered, my lord, whether the
ascertaining of this point ought not to precede any attempt to identify
them?

"The place of their depositum, too, claims much more attention than is
commonly bestowed upon it; for of all places in the world, none could
have mentioned any one wherein there was greater certainty of finding
human bones than a hermitage, except he should point out a churchyard;
hermitages, in time past, being not only places of religious retirement,
but of burial too: and it has scarce or never been heard of, but that
every cell now known contains or contained these relics of humanity,
some mutilated and some entire. I do not inform, but give me leave to
remind your lordship, that here sat solitary Sanctity, and here the
hermit or the anchoress hoped that repose for their bones when dead they
here enjoyed when living.

"All the while, my lord, I am sensible this is known to your lordship,
and many in this Court, better than to me; but it seems necessary to my
case that others, who have not at all, perhaps, adverted to things of
this nature, and may have concern in my trial, should be made acquainted
with it. Suffer me then, my lord, to produce a few of many evidences
that these cells were used as repositories of the dead, and to enumerate
a few in which human bones have been found, as it happened in this
question; lest, to some, that accident might seem extraordinary, and,
consequently, occasion prejudice.

"1. The bones, as was supposed, of the Saxon saint, Dubritius, were
discovered buried in his cell at Guy's Cliff, near Warwick; as appears
from the authority of Sir William Dugdale.

"2. The bones thought to be those of the anchoress Rosia were but lately
discovered in a cell at Royston, entire, fair, and undecayed, though
they must have lain interred for several centuries; as is proved by Dr.
Stukely.

"3. But my own country--nay, almost this neighbourhood--supplies another
instance; for in January 1747, were found, by Mr. Stovin, accompanied by
a reverend gentleman, the bones, in part, of some recluse, in the cell
at Lindholm, near Hatfield. They were believed to be those of William of
Lindholm, a hermit, who had long made this cave his habitation.

"4. In February 1744, part of Woburn Abbey being pulled down, a large
portion of a corpse appeared, even with the flesh on, and which bore
cutting with a knife; though it is certain this had lain above two
hundred years, and how much longer is doubtful; for this abbey was
founded in 1145, and dissolved in 1538 or 1539.

"What would have been said, what believed, if this had been an accident
to the bones in question?

"Farther, my lord:--it is not yet out of living memory that at a little
distance from Knaresborough, in a field, part of the manor of the worthy
and patriot baronet who does that borough the honour to represent it in
parliament, were found, in digging for gravel, not one human skeleton
only, but five or six, deposited side by side, with each an urn placed
at its head, as your lordship knows was usual in ancient interments.

"About the same time, and in another field, almost close to this
borough, was discovered also, in searching for gravel, another human
skeleton; but the piety of the same worthy gentleman ordered both pits
to be filled up again, commendably unwilling to disturb the dead.

"Is the invention of these bones forgotten, then, or industriously
concealed, that the discovery of those in question may appear the more
singular and extraordinary? whereas, in fact, there is nothing
extraordinary in it. My lord, almost every place conceals such remains.
In fields, in hills, in highway sides, in commons, lie frequent and
unsuspected bones; and our present allotments for rest for the departed
are but of some centuries.

"Another particular seems not to claim a little of your lordship's
notice, and that of the gentlemen of the jury; which is, that perhaps no
example occurs of more than one skeleton being found in one cell: and in
the cell in question was found but one; agreeable, in this, to the
peculiarity of every other known cell in Britain. Not the invention of
one skeleton, but of two, would have appeared suspicious and uncommon.
But it seems another skeleton has been discovered by some labourer,
which was full as confidently averred to be Clarke's as this. My lord,
must some of the living, if it promotes some interest, be made
answerable for all the bones that earth has concealed and chance
exposed? and might not a place where bones lay be mentioned by a person
by chance as well as found by a labourer by chance? or is it more
criminal accidentally to name where bones lie than accidentally to find
where they lie?

"Here too is a human skull produced, which is fractured; but was this
the cause, or was it the consequence, of death? was it owing to
violence, or was it the effect of natural decay? If it was violence, was
that violence before or after death? My lord, in May 1732, the remains
of William, Lord Archbishop of this province, were taken up, by
permission, in this cathedral, and the bones of the skull were found
broken; yet certainly he died by no violence offered to him alive that
could occasion that fracture there.

"Let it be considered, my lord, that, upon the dissolution of religious
houses and the commencement of the Reformation, the ravages of those
times affected both the living and the dead. In search after imaginary
treasures, coffins were broken up, graves and vaults dug open, monuments
ransacked, and shrines demolished; and it ceased about the beginning of
the reign of Queen Elizabeth. I entreat your lordship, suffer not the
violence, the depredations, and the iniquities of those times, to be
imputed to this.

"Moreover, what gentleman here is ignorant that Knaresborough had a
castle, which, though now a ruin, was once considerable both for its
strength and garrison? All know it was vigorously besieged by the arms
of the parliament; at which siege, in sallies, conflicts, flights,
pursuits, many fell in all the places round it, and, where they fell,
were buried, for every place, my lord, is burial-earth in war; and
many, questionless, of these rest yet unknown, whose bones futurity
shall discover.

"I hope, with all imaginable submission, that what has been said will
not be thought impertinent to this indictment; and that it will be far
from the wisdom, the learning, and the integrity of this place, to
impute to the living what zeal in its fury may have done--what nature
may have taken off, and piety interred--or what war alone may have
destroyed, alone deposited.

"As to the circumstances that have been raked together, 1 have nothing
to observe but that all circumstances whatever are precarious, and have
been but too frequently found lamentably fallible; even the strongest
have failed. They may rise to the utmost degree of probability, yet they
are but probability still. Why need I name to your lordship the two
Harrisons recorded by Dr. Howel, who both suffered upon circumstances
because of the sudden disappearance of their lodger, who was in credit,
had contracted debts, borrowed money, and went off unseen, and returned
a great many years after their execution? Why name the intricate affair
of Jacques de Moulin, under King Charles II. related by a gentleman who
was counsel for the crown? And why the unhappy Coleman, who suffered
innocently, though convicted upon positive evidence; and whose children
perished for want, because the world uncharitably believed the father
guilty? Why mention the perjury of Smith, incautiously admitted king's
evidence: who, to screen himself, equally accused Faircloth and Loveday
of the murder of Dun; the first of whom, in 1749, was executed at
Winchester; and Loveday was about to suffer at Reading, had not Smith
been proved perjured, to the satisfaction of the Court, by the governor
of Gosport hospital?

"Now, my lord, having endeavoured to show that the whole of this process
is altogether repugnant to every part of my life; that it is
inconsistent with my condition of health about that time; that no
rational inference can be drawn that a person is dead who suddenly
disappears; that hermitages are the constant depositaries of the bones
of a recluse; that the proofs of this are well authenticated; that the
revolutions in religion, or the fortunes of war, have mangled or buried
the dead;--the conclusion remains, perhaps, no less reasonable than
impatiently wished for. I, at last, after a year's confinement, equal to
either fortune, put myself upon the justice, the candour, and the
humanity of your lordship; and upon yours, my countrymen, gentlemen of
the jury."

The delivery of this address created a very considerable impression in
court; but the learned judge having calmly and with great perspicuity
summed up the evidence which had been produced, and having observed upon
the prisoner's defence, which he declared to be one of the most
ingenious pieces of reasoning that had ever fallen under his notice, the
jury, with little hesitation, returned a verdict of Guilty. Sentence of
death was then passed upon the prisoner, who received the intimation of
his fate with becoming resignation. After his conviction, he confessed
the justice of his sentence to two clergymen who were directed to attend
him--a sufficient proof of the fruitlessness of the efforts to prove him
innocent, which the morbid sentimentality of late writers has induced
them to attempt. Upon an inquiry being made of him as to his reason for
committing the crime, he declared that he had reason to suspect Clarke
of having had unlawful intercourse with his wife; and that at the time
of his committing the murder he had thought that he was acting rightly,
but that he had since thought that his crime could not be justified or
excused. In the hopes of avoiding the ignominious death which he was
doomed to suffer, on the night before his execution he attempted to
commit suicide by cutting his arm in two places with a razor, which he
had concealed for that purpose. This attempt was not discovered until
the morning, when the jailor came to lead him forth to the place of
execution, and he was then found almost expiring from loss of blood. A
surgeon was immediately sent for, who found that he had wounded himself
severely on the left arm, above the elbow and near the wrist, but he had
missed the artery, and his life was prolonged only in order that it
might be taken away on the scaffold. When he was placed on the drop, he
was perfectly sensible, but was too weak to be able to join in devotion
with the clergyman who attended him He was executed at York on the 16th
August 1759; and his body was afterwards hung in chains in Knaresborough
Forest.

The following papers were afterwards found in his handwriting on the
table in his cell. The first contained reasons for his attempt upon his
life, and was as follows:--"What am I better than my fathers? To die is
natural and necessary. Perfectly sensible of this, I fear no more to die
than I did to be born. But the manner of it is something which should,
in my opinion, be decent and manly. I think I have regarded both these
points. Certainly no man has a better right to dispose of a man's life
than himself; and he, not others, should determine how. As for any
indignities offered to my body, or silly reflections on my faith and
morals, they are, as they always were, things indifferent to me. I
think, though contrary to the common way of thinking, I wrong no man by
this, and hope it is not offensive to that eternal Being that formed me
and the world: and as by this I injure no man, no man can be reasonably
offended. I solicitously recommend myself to that eternal and almighty
Being, the God of Nature, if I have done amiss. But perhaps I have not;
and I hope this thing will never be imputed to me. Though I am now
stained by malevolence and suffer by prejudice, I hope to rise fair and
unblemished. My life was not polluted, my morals irreproachable, and my
opinions orthodox. I slept sound till three o'clock, awaked, and then
writ these lines--

    Come, pleasing rest! eternal slumbers, fall!
    Seal mine, that once must seal the eyes of all.
    Calm and composed my soul her journey takes;
    No guilt that troubles, and no heart that aches.
    Adieu, thou sun! all bright, like her, arise!
    Adieu, fair friends, and all that's good and wise!"

The second was in the form of a letter, addressed to a former companion,
and was in the following terms:

"MY DEAR FRIEND,--Before this reaches you, I shall be no more a living
man in this world, though at present in perfect bodily health: but who
can describe the horrors of mind which I suffer at this instant?
Guilt--the guilt of blood shed without any provocation, without any
cause but that of filthy lucre--pierces my conscience with wounds that
give the most poignant pains! 'Tis true the consciousness of my horrid
guilt has given me frequent interruptions in the midst of my business or
pleasures; but yet I have found means to stifle its clamours, and
contrived a momentary remedy for the disturbance it gave me by applying
to the bottle or the bowl, or diversions, or company, or business;
sometimes one, and sometimes the other, as opportunity offered: but now
all these, and all other amusements, are at an end, and I am left
forlorn, helpless, and destitute of every comfort; for I have nothing
now in view but the certain destruction both of my soul and body. My
conscience will now no longer suffer itself to be hoodwinked or
browbeat: it has now got the mastery; it is my accuser, judge, and
executioner: and the sentence it pronounceth against me is more dreadful
than that I heard from the bench, which only condemned my body to the
pains of death, which are soon over; but conscience tells me plainly
that she will summon me before another tribunal, where I shall have
neither power nor means to stifle the evidence she will there bring
against me; and that the sentence which will then be denounced will not
only be irreversible, but will condemn my soul to torments that will
know no end.

"Oh! had I but hearkened to the advice which dear-bought experience has
enabled me to give, I should not now have been plunged into that
dreadful gulf of despair which I find it impossible to extricate myself
from; and therefore my soul is filled with horror inconceivable. I see
both God and man my enemies, and in a few hours shall be exposed a
public spectacle for the world to gaze at. Can you conceive any
condition more horrible than mine? O, no! it cannot be! I am determined,
therefore, to put a short end to trouble I am no longer able to bear,
and prevent the executioner by doing his business with my own hand, and
shall by this means at least prevent the shame and disgrace of a public
exposure, and leave the care of my soul in the hands of eternal mercy.
Wishing you all health, happiness, and prosperity, I am, to the last
moment of my life, yours, with the sincerest regard,

"