MARY BLANDY.

EXECUTED FOR PARRICIDE.


The unhappy subject of this memoir was a young lady of most respectable
family, and of superior education, but who, in spite of the exertions of
her parents in her early life to implant in her breast sentiments of
piety and virtue, was guilty of a crime of the most heinous
description--the wilful murder of her father. Mr. Francis Blandy was an
attorney residing at Henley-on-Thames, and held the office of town-clerk
of that place. Possessed of ample means, his house became the scene of
much gaiety; and as report gave to his daughter a fortune of no
inconsiderable extent, and as, besides, her manners were sprightly and
affable, and her appearance engaging, her hand was sought in marriage by
many persons whose rank and wealth rendered them fitting to become her
partner for life. But among all these visitants, none were received with
greater pleasure by Mr. or Mrs. Blandy, or their daughter, than those
who held commissions in the army. This predilection was evidenced in the
introduction of the Hon. William Henry Cranstoun, at that time engaged
on the recruiting service for a foot regiment, in which he ranked as
captain.

Captain Cranstoun was the son of Lord Cranstoun, a Scotch peer of
ancient family, and through the instrumentality of his uncle, Lord Mark
Ker, he had obtained his commission. In the year 1745, he had married a
young lady of good family named Murray, with whom he received an ample
fortune; and in the year 1752, he was ordered to England to endeavour to
procure his complement of men for his regiment. His bad fortune led him
to Henley, and there he formed an intimacy with Miss Blandy. At this
time Cranstoun was forty-six years of age, while Miss Blandy was twenty
years his junior; and it is somewhat extraordinary that a person of her
accomplishments and beauty should have formed a _liaison_ with a man so
much older than herself, and who, besides, is represented as having been
devoid of all personal attractions.

A short acquaintance, it appears, was sufficient to excite the flame of
passion in the mind of the gallant captain, as well as of Miss Blandy;
and ere long, their tro