have been handed in by the
attendants during the week, are allowed to go to church. A small
Catholic chapel is on the island, and other services are also held.

A “commissioner” came one day, and made the rounds with Dr. Dent. In the
basement they found half the nurses gone to dinner, leaving the other
half in charge of us, as was always done. Immediately orders were given
to bring the nurses back to their duties until after the patients had
finished eating. Some of the patients wanted to speak about their having
no salt, but were prevented.

The insane asylum on Blackwell’s Island is a human rat-trap. It is easy
to get in, but once there it is impossible to get out. I had intended to
have myself committed to the violent wards, the Lodge and Retreat, but
when I got the testimony of two sane women and could give it, I decided
not to risk my health—and hair—so I did not get violent.

I had, toward the last, been shut off from all visitors, and so when the
lawyer, Peter A. Hendricks, came and told me that friends of mine were
willing to take charge of me if I would rather be with them than in the
asylum, I was only too glad to give my consent. I asked him to send me
something to eat immediately on his arrival in the city, and then I
waited anxiously for my release.

It came sooner than I had hoped. I was out “in line” taking a walk, and
had just gotten interested in a poor woman who had fainted away while
the nurses were trying to compel her to walk. “Good-bye; I am going
home,” I called to Pauline Moser, as she went past with a woman on
either side of her. Sadly I said farewell to all I knew as I passed them
on my way to freedom and life, while they were left behind to a fate
worse than death. “_Adios_,” I murmured to the Mexican woman. I kissed
my fingers to her, and so I left my companions of hall 7.

I had looked forward so eagerly to leaving the horrible place, yet when
my release came and I knew that God’s sunlight was to be free for me
again, there was a certain pain in leaving. For ten days I had been one
of them. Foolishly enough, it seemed intensely selfish to leave them to
their sufferings. I felt a Quixotic desire to help them by sympathy and
presence. But only for a moment. The bars were down and freedom was
sweeter to me than ever.

Soon I was crossing the river and nearing New York. Once again I was a
free girl after ten days in the mad-house on Blackwell’s Island.




                             