 
 The Fed - Monetary Policy: Beige Book (Branch) 
 Skip to main content 
 An official website of the United States Government Here's how you know Official websites use .gov A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States. Secure .gov websites use HTTPS A lock ( Lock Locked padlock icon ) or https:// means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites. 
 Back to Home 
 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
 Stay Connected 
 Federal Reserve Facebook Page 
 Federal Reserve Instagram Page 
 Federal Reserve YouTube Page 
 Federal Reserve Flickr Page 
 Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page 
 Federal Reserve Threads Page 
 Federal Reserve X Page 
 Federal Reserve Bluesky Page 
 Subscribe to RSS 
 Subscribe to Email 
 Recent Postings 
 Calendar 
 Publications 
 Site Map 
 A-Z index 
 Careers 
 FAQs 
 Videos 
 Contact 
 Search 
 Submit Search Button 
 Advanced 
 Toggle Dropdown Menu 
 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
 The Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States, provides
 the nation with a safe, flexible, and stable monetary and financial
 system. 
 Main Menu Toggle Button 
 Sections 
 Search Toggle Button 
 Search 
 Search Submit Button 
 Submit 
 About the Fed 
 Structure of the Federal Reserve System 
 The Fed Explained 
 Board Members 
 Advisory Councils 
 Federal Reserve Banks 
 Federal Reserve Bank and Branch Directors 
 Federal Reserve Act 
 Currency 
 Board Meetings 
 Board Votes 
 Careers 
 Do Business with the Board 
 Holidays Observed - K.8 
 Ethics & Values 
 Contact 
 Requesting Information (FOIA) 
 FAQs 
 Economic Education 
 Fed Financial Statements 
 Financial Innovation 
 News & Events 
 Press Releases 
 Speeches & Testimony 
 Calendar 
 Videos 
 Photo Gallery 
 Conferences 
 Monetary Policy 
 Federal Open Market Committee 
 About the FOMC 
 Meeting calendars and information 
 Transcripts and other historical materials 
 FAQs 
 Monetary Policy Principles and Practice 
 Notes 
 Policy Implementation 
 Policy Normalization 
 Policy Tools 
 Reports 
 Monetary Policy Report 
 Beige Book 
 Federal Reserve Balance Sheet Developments 
 Review of Monetary Policy Strategy, Tools, and Communications 
 Overview 
 Supervision & Regulation 
 Supervision 
 Community Banks 
 Regional Banks and Foreign Banks with U.S. Assets 
 Large Banks and Large Foreign Banks 
 Global Systemically Important Banks 
 Financial Market
 Utilities 
 Consumer
 Compliance 
 Resources for Supervised Institutions 
 Reports 
 Federal Reserve
 Supervision and Regulation Report 
 Reporting Forms 
 Recent Reporting Form Updates 
 Information Collections
 Under Review 
 Financial
 Statements 
 Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
 Applications/Structure Change 
 FFIEC 
 Municipal and
 Government Securities 
 Activities Monitoring 
 Micro Data Reference Manual 
 Legal Developments 
 Enforcement Actions and
 Legal Developments 
 Mergers, Acquisitions, and Other Applications 
 Process 
 Filing
 Information 
 Board and Reserve
 Bank Actions 
 Supervision and Regulation Letters 
 By Year 
 By Topic 
 Regulatory and Policy Resources 
 Federal Reserve Act 
 Bank Holding Company Act 
 Regulations 
 Supervision Manuals 
 Federal Reserve Regulatory Service 
 Disaster Preparedness and Recovery Resources
 Banking and Data Structure 
 Beneficial Ownership
 Reports 
 U.S. Domestically Chartered Commercial Banks 
 Minority Depository
 Institutions 
 U.S. Offices of Foreign Entities 
 Financial Holding
 Companies 
 Interstate
 Branching 
 Securities
 Underwriting and Dealing Subsidiaries 
 State Member Banks Supervised by the Federal Reserve 
 Financial Stability 
 Financial Stability Assessments 
 About Financial Stability 
 Types of Financial System Vulnerabilities & Risks 
 Monitoring Risk Across the Financial System 
 Proactive Monitoring of Markets & Institutions 
 Financial Stability & Stress Testing 
 Financial Stability Coordination & Actions 
 Responding to Financial System Emergencies 
 Cooperation on Financial Stability 
 Reports 
 Financial Stability Report 
 Payment Systems 
 Regulations & Statutes 
 Regulation CC (Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks) 
 Regulation II (Debit Card Interchange Fees and Routing) 
 Regulation HH (Financial Market Utilities) 
 Other Regulations and Statutes 
 Payment Policies 
 Federal Reserve's Key Policies for the Provision of Financial Services 
 Guidelines for Evaluating Joint Account Requests 
 Overnight Overdrafts 
 Payment System Risk 
 Sponsorship for Priority Telecommunication Services 
 Reserve Bank Payment Services & Data 
 Automated Clearinghouse Services 
 Check Services 
 Currency and Coin Services 
 Daylight Overdrafts and Fees 
 FedNow ® Service 
 Fedwire Funds Services 
 Fedwire Securities Services 
 Fiscal Agency Services 
 Master Account and Services Database 
 National Settlement Service 
 Financial Market Utilities & Infrastructures 
 Supervision & Oversight of Financial Market Infrastructures 
 Designated Financial Market Utilities 
 International Standards for Financial Market Infrastructures 
 Research, Reports, & Committees 
 Federal Reserve Payments Study (FRPS) 
 Payments Research 
 Reports 
 Payments System Policy Advisory Committee 
 Economic Research 
 Meet the Researchers 
 Working Papers and Notes 
 Finance and Economics Discussion Series (FEDS) 
 FEDS Notes 
 International Finance Discussion Papers (IFDP) 
 Data, Models and Tools 
 Economic Research Data 
 FRB/US Model 
 Estimated Dynamic Optimization (EDO) Model 
 Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) 
 Data 
 Data Download Program 
 Bank Assets and Liabilities 
 Aggregate Reserves of Depository Institutions and the Monetary Base - H.3 
 Assets and Liabilities of Commercial Banks in the U.S. - H.8 
 Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks 
 Charge-Off and Delinquency Rates on Loans and Leases at Commercial Banks 
 Senior Financial Officer Survey 
 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices 
 Bank Structure Data 
 U.S. Domestically Chartered Commercial Banks 
 Minority Depository Institutions 
 Structure and Share Data for the U.S. Offices of Foreign Banks 
 Business Finance 
 Commercial Paper 
 Finance Companies - G.20 
 New Security Issues, State and Local Governments 
 New Security Issues, U.S. Corporations 
 Dealer Financing Terms 
 Senior Credit Officer Opinion Survey on Dealer Financing Terms 
 Exchange Rates and International Data 
 Foreign Exchange Rates - H.10/G.5 
 International Summary Statistics 
 Securities Holdings and Transactions 
 Statistics Reported by Banks and Other Financial Firms in the United States 
 Structure and Share Data for U.S. Offices of Foreign Banks 
 Financial Accounts 
 Financial Accounts of the United States - Z.1 
 Household Finance 
 Consumer Credit - G.19 
 Household Debt Service Ratios 
 Mortgage Debt Outstanding 
 Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) 
 Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking 
 Industrial Activity 
 Industrial Production and Capacity Utilization - G.17 
 Interest Rates 
 Selected Interest Rates - H.15 
 Micro Data Reference Manual (MDRM) 
 Micro and Macro Data Collections 
 Money Stock and Reserve Balances 
 Factors Affecting Reserve Balances - H.4.1 
 Money Stock Measures - H.6 
 Other 
 Yield Curve Models and Data 
 Consumers & Communities 
 Regulations 
 Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) 
 All Regulations 
 Supervision & Enforcement 
 CA Letters 
 Enforcement Actions 
 Independent Foreclosure Review 
 Community Development 
 Housing and Neighborhood Revitalization 
 Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
 Employment and Workforce Development 
 Community Development Finance 
 Rural Community and Economic Development 
 Conferences 
 Research & Analysis 
 Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking 
 Research Publications & Data Analysis 
 Community Advisory Council 
 Resources for Consumers 
 Frauds and Scams 
 Mortgage and Foreclosure Resources 
 Federal Reserve Community Development Resources 
 Home 
 Monetary Policy 
 Beige Book 
 August 2026 
 Beige Book - August 2026 
 PDF 
 About This Publication National Summary Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Federal Reserve Bank of New York Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
 National Summary 
 Overall Economic Activity 
 Economic activity increased modestly since early July. Ten of the twelve Federal Reserve Districts reported growth in the slight to moderate range; two Districts reported no change. Consumer spending grew slightly on balance; reports reflected both heightened price sensitivity on the one hand and solid high-end purchases on the other. Auto sales were mostly subdued, dampened by downbeat consumer confidence, high fuel prices, and rising financing costs. Tourism activity increased. Notably, airlines reported strong demand despite higher airfares. Manufacturing activity picked up across most Districts, with some highlighting ongoing strength in demand for defense and data center-related orders. Services firms reported slight to modest increases in activity. Financial conditions improved slightly as loan volumes remained solid or increased across most Districts. Residential construction declined while nonresidential construction increased on balance, with some Districts noting a high concentration of activity related to data center projects. Agriculture conditions saw slight improvement but generally remained strained; the livestock sector was strong while conditions were stressed among crop producers. The general outlook for the coming months was positive, but sentiment was mixed across sectors, with contacts reporting heightened uncertainty surrounding the effects of higher energy prices, policy, and international conflict. 
 Labor Markets 
 Employment rose very slightly overall, with three Districts showing modest gains in employment, four reporting slight gains, and five Districts experiencing no change. Eight Districts saw a change in their pace of growth from the previous report, but there was less overall dispersion among Districts. Healthy labor demand was seen most frequently in manufacturing, construction, and some service sectors, while retail and hospitality sectors saw falling labor demand. Labor availability was mixed. Skilled trades and technical workers were difficult to find. Districts also reported both positive and negative effects of artificial intelligence on labor demand. Wage growth was modest to moderate in most Districts. Significant wage increases were most often connected to demand for skilled workers in construction and manufacturing. 
 Prices 
 Prices increased moderately in eight Districts, with two Districts reporting modest increases, one slight increases, and one robust increases. Compared with the previous reporting period, the pace of price increases was the same in eight Districts, decreased in three, and increased in one. Input price pressures were notably elevated in manufacturing and construction across multiple Districts, with widespread reports of price increases for energy, transportation, and raw materials, particularly metals and petrochemicals. Retail and manufacturing contacts continued to note tariff-related impacts in multiple Districts. Firms also broadly reported significant health care and insurance cost pressures. Consumer-facing contacts in a few Districts noted that heightened price sensitivity among customers was putting a limit on their ability to pass through input price increases. 
 Highlights by Federal Reserve District 
 Boston 
 Economic activity grew slightly, with similar performance across most sectors. Employment and wages each ticked up a bit, and prices rose slightly as well. Boston experienced strong consumer spending in recent months, but spending was flat or softer elsewhere. The outlook was marked by increased concerns related to the negative impact of inflation on consumers' budgets. 
 New York 
 Economic activity continued to increase modestly, with particular strength in manufacturing. On balance, employment held steady. Selling price increases eased slightly but remained moderate, while input prices rose strongly. Supply chain strains emerged in the tech and defense sectors. 
 Philadelphia 
 Business activity rose modestly this period, up from a slight increase in the last period. Employment improved slightly, as both manufacturers and nonmanufacturers reported increased hiring. Wage inflation again grew modestly, and firm price inflation edged down to a modest pace. Expectations for future growth rose at a strong pace for manufacturers but remained below the long-run average for nonmanufacturers. 
 Cleveland 
 Fourth District business activity increased modestly, with moderate growth expected in the months ahead. Manufacturing demand grew robustly, driven by data centers and defense spending, while consumer spending declined for the fourth consecutive period. Nonlabor costs remained robust for the tenth consecutive period, and prices rose moderately. 
 Richmond 
 The regional economy continued to expand moderately this cycle. Consumer spending continued to grow, particularly for travel and experiential goods and services. Port volumes grew moderately and nonfinancial services saw modest growth in demand and revenues. The remaining sectors reported activity as flat to slightly down. Employment and price growth remained moderate. 
 Atlanta 
 Economic activity grew modestly. Employment levels remained largely flat. Wages rose moderately, and costs and prices increased at a moderate pace. Consumer spending and transportation activity expanded modestly. Residential real estate conditions were little changed. Commercial real estate, manufacturing, and energy sectors grew moderately. Lending increased at a modest pace. 
 Chicago 
 Economic activity increased slightly. Manufacturing demand rose modestly; employment was up slightly; consumer spending and construction and real estate activity were flat; business spending declined slightly; and nonbusiness contacts saw no change in economic activity. Prices rose moderately, wages rose modestly, and financial conditions tightened slightly. Farm income expectations improved some. 
 St. Louis 
 Economic activity has modestly increased. Employment was unchanged and wage growth remained moderate. Prices have risen at a robust pace and were widespread. The outlook has slightly improved, with contacts citing uncertainty, supply chain disruptions, and high fuel costs from the Middle East conflict continuing to affect conditions. 
 Minneapolis 
 Ninth District economic activity grew slightly. Employment grew and hiring increased. Prices increased at the same pace as the last report, with elevated input pressures. Consumer spending was down and tourism was hampered by heat and wildfire smoke. Loan demand grew slightly. Agricultural contacts were worried about drought. 
 Kansas City 
 Business activity had little change within the Tenth District, though underlying conditions softened. Retailers and manufacturers drew down inventories amid elevated prices and uncertain demand. Labor was the top growth constraint as hiring difficulties broadened. Cost pressure prompted more frequent price adjustments. Expectations for the District became more mixed across sectors. 
 Dallas 
 Economic activity in the Eleventh District expanded moderately. Growth picked up in the manufacturing, banking, and energy sectors, while it slowed in nonfinancial services. Retail sales increased. Agriculture conditions deteriorated due to drought conditions. Employment grew modestly with moderate wage growth. Price rose moderately to robustly. Outlooks were stable to positive. 
 San Francisco 
 Economic activity was little changed. Employers maintained staffing levels. Prices rose modestly, while wages increased slightly. Retail sales were stable, while demand for services eased slightly. Conditions were little changed in manufacturing and agriculture. Residential real estate activity declined somewhat, while commercial real estate and financial services activity remained stable. 
 Note: This report was prepared at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis based on information collected on or before August 24, 2026. This document summarizes comments received from contacts outside the Federal Reserve System and is not a commentary on the views of Federal Reserve officials. 
 Back to Top 
 Last Update:
 September 02, 2026
 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
 About the Fed News & Events Monetary Policy Supervision & Regulation Financial Stability Payment Systems Economic Research Data Consumers & Communities Connect with the Board 
 Tools and Information 
 Contact 
 Publications 
 Freedom of Information (FOIA) 
 Office of Inspector General 
 Budget & Performance | Audit 
 No FEAR Act 
 Español 
 Website Policies | Privacy Program 
 Accessibility 
 Stay Connected 
 Federal Reserve Facebook Page 
 Federal Reserve Instagram Page 
 Federal Reserve YouTube Page 
 Federal Reserve Flickr Page 
 Federal Reserve LinkedIn Page 
 Federal Reserve Threads Page 
 Link to Federal Reserve X Page 
 Link to Federal Reserve Bluesky Page 
 Subscribe to RSS 
 Subscribe to Email 
 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
 20th Street and Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20551 
 -->
 