 
 US Robot Industry Returns to Double Digit Growth - International Federation of Robotics 
 -->
 Toggle navigation 
 IFR 
 Association 
 About IFR 
 Key People 
 Topics and Definitions 
 Contact 
 Compliance 
 International Symposium on Robotics 
 IERA Award 
 Women in Robotics 
 Robots Create Jobs! -->
 Statistics 
 About World Robotics 
 Industrial Robots 
 Service Robots 
 Products 
 Participation IR 
 Participation HR 
 Participation SR 
 Customer Login 
 Newsroom 
 Press Releases 
 Press Contact 
 Press Photos 
 Press Newsletter 
 Resources 
 Blog 
 Position Papers 
 Case studies 
 Sustainability 
 Robot History 
 Market Research 
 Sitemap 
 Members 
 Members' News 
 Members List 
 Survey IR 
 Survey SR 
 IFR Press Room 
 DE 
 US Robot Industry Returns to Double Digit Growth 
 Preliminary results published by International Federation of Robotics 
 Jun 18, 2026 — The number of industrial robot installations in the United States rose by 11% year-on-year, to reach 38,000 units in 2025. This significant recovery is driven by robust growth in the food industry and other non-manufacturing sectors. However, the automotive industry remains the largest adopter and reached 13,500 units, just 1% below last year's result.
 “The United States are back on the growth track,” says Takayuki Ito, President of the International Federation of Robotics. “While automotive achieved its third-best result in seven years, the data highlights a growing demand for flexible automation in the food industry: Adoption in this sector surged by 30%, now ranking alongside metal and machinery and electrical-electronics, all with approximately 3,000 installations in 2025.” 
 Robot density 
 The degree of automation in the US, as measured by robot density, stands at 307 industrial robots in use for every 10,000 employees in the manufacturing industry. This places the US in 8th position worldwide (two ranks up from the previous year) behind top automated countries such as South Korea (1,220 robots), Germany (449 robots) and Japan (446 robots), but ahead of China (166 robots). 
 United States vs. China 
 However, China far outperforms the rest of the world in terms of market size: Annual installations in China reached 295,000 units in 2024. This represents a global market share of 54%. Preliminary results for China 2025 are not published yet, but according to IFR´s estimates, installations are about ten times higher than the number in the United States. This success story is based on the country's national robotics strategy, which was launched ten years ago. China's recently published 15th Five-Year Plan (2026–2030) now has placed robotics at the heart of its modern industrial system. The aim is to focus its AI research on physical applications, with robots being the main driver of economic growth. 
 National Robotics Strategy  
 North America’s largest automation trade association, A3, has officially published and presented its "Vision for a National Robotics Strategy" to lawmakers. The trade group advocates a framework for a Federal Robotics Office and a National Commission to coordinate policy, with the aim of harmonising government research and fostering public-private partnerships. The proposed national strategy also calls for market-driven tax incentives, expanded technical workforce retraining, updated safety standards, and a federal mandate to purchase domestic robotics technology to accelerate commercial deployment. 
 Outlook 
 The industrial modernization outlook in North America and the U.S. remains highly positive. This is driven by accelerating factory reshoring initiatives and a persistent shortage of skilled labor. IFR projects a resilient, long-term growth trajectory for the region's automation sector, as manufacturers are increasing automation investments to mitigate structural workforce gaps, and, as demand diversifies beyond traditional sectors. 
 At the Automate Show 2026 in Chicago, IFR Vice 
President Jane Heffner will present the preliminary figures on 
industrial robot installations for the North American market on 
Wednesday, 24 June at 10:30 AM (Automate Show Theatre). The Robotics 
Executive Roundtable by IFR will then discuss “What’s Next in 
Automation: Market Forces, Technology, and Leadership Perspectives”. The
 Panel: Mikell Taylor General Motors, Justin Brown Teradyne, Justin King Omron Robotics, Jan Louwen Stäubli, Robert Little Robert Little Robotics Advisory, Robert Huschka A3: https://www.automateshow.com/a... 
 About Robot density  
 Robot density is the number of operational industrial robots relative to the number of employees. It can cover the whole manufacturing industry or just specific industrial branches. The number of employees serves as a measure of economic size, so the quotient of operational stock over employees puts the operational stock on a uniform base. 
 Contact  
 International Federation of Robotics PRESS OFFICER Carsten Heer phone +49 (0) 40 822 44 284 E-Mail: [email protected] 
 Downloads 
 Graph United States back on track - preliminary results 2025 (136 KB ) 
 IFR Pressemeldung zu US Markt - vorläufige Zahlen (155 KB ) 
 Market presentation on preliminary US figues 2025 - IFR Executive Roundtable (1.09 MB ) 
 Facebook 
 LinkedIn 
 Jane Heffner is New President of International Federation of Robotics 
 US Robot Industry Returns to Double Digit Growth 
 IERA Award 2026 Goes to Flying Warehouse Robots by Verity from Switzerland 
 China Makes AI-powered Robots Core of National Strategy 
 Press Contact IFR 
 All press requests are handled by our press officer. 
 Carsten Heer 
 IFR Press Inquiries 
 Phone: +49 40-822 44 284 E-Mail: press(at)ifr.org 
 Dr. Susanne Bieller 
 IFR General Secretary 
 E-Mail: secretariat(at)ifr.org 
 Credits · Legal Disclaimer · Privacy Policy · World Robotics Terms of Usage · © IFR 2026 
 Privacy Settings 
 We use cookies on our website. Some of them are essential, while others help us to improve this website and your experience.
 Strictly necessary
 Analytics
 Privacy Policy 
 Save 
 Accept all 
