 
 China Makes AI-powered Robots Core of National Strategy - International Federation of Robotics 
 -->
 Toggle navigation 
 IFR 
 Association 
 About IFR 
 Key People 
 Topics and Definitions 
 Contact 
 Compliance 
 International Symposium on Robotics 
 IERA Award 
 Women in Robotics 
 Robots Create Jobs! -->
 Statistics 
 About World Robotics 
 Industrial Robots 
 Service Robots 
 Products 
 Participation IR 
 Participation HR 
 Participation SR 
 Customer Login 
 Newsroom 
 Press Releases 
 Press Contact 
 Press Photos 
 Press Newsletter 
 Resources 
 Blog 
 Position Papers 
 Case studies 
 Sustainability 
 Robot History 
 Market Research 
 Sitemap 
 Members 
 Members' News 
 Members List 
 Survey IR 
 Survey SR 
 IFR Press Room 
 DE 
 China Makes AI-powered Robots Core of National Strategy 
 China´s 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030) marks pivot to innovation 
 Frankfurt, May 05, 2026 — China has launched its 15th Five-Year Plan by placing robotics at the heart of its modern industrial system. The aim is to pivot its AI research towards physical applications with robots as main drivers for economic growth. This is a next step in the country´s strong automation development: China´s manufacturing industry already has an operational stock of around 2 million units — approximately 4.5 times more than the global no. 2, Japan. 54% of annual industrial robots installed worldwide were deployed in China. This is according to the World Robotics 2025 Report, presented by the International Federation of Robotics (IFR). 
 China has placed robotics at the heart of its modern industrial system © Hangzhou Robotphoenix Industrial Robotics 
 “The outline of the 15th Five-Year Plan of the People’s Republic of China acts as the primary framework document that sets the overarching direction for all other government actions,” says Takayuki Ito, President of the International Federation of Robotics. “Thousands of subordinate sectoral and regional plans are now mandated to align with the objectives. Under the new framework, China is shifting its focus from traditional industrial automation to high-end, intelligent robotics integrated with artificial intelligence.” 
 Humanoid Robot Show  
 China’s new blueprint sees the main value of AI in its application to business and industry. To illustrate its competences and global competitiveness in “embodied intelligence” they showcase humanoid robots that dance or run. This was recently broadcasted around the world at the televised celebration of the Lunar New Year and at the humanoid robot half-marathon in Beijing. Despite these impressive public presentations at staged events, the actual capabilities in real-world production scenarios are currently limited to demonstrators or pilot projects. Contrary to expectations, the humanoid platform itself and the embodied AI are not necessarily developed at the same time and by the same market players. 
 Humanoids vs. Industrial Robots  
 The comparison with traditional industrial robots highlights fundamental aspects of humanoid robot limitations. Critics point to the “form follows function” rule: the human body may not be suited to certain tasks. Traditional industrial robots tend to have fewer joints tailored to a specific task. This results in simpler control schemes that are faster and more reliable than humanoid robots. This is why industrial robots are likely to remain the backbone of high-speed, precision-driven manufacturing environments. In industrial production settings, tasks are repetitive and demand millimetre-level precision at high speeds. Industrial robots excel here—they perform highly specialized movements quickly and consistently. When the job calls for extreme specialization, industrial robots generally outperform their humanoid counterparts. Humanoid robots offer a more general approach. They combine mobility with human-like interaction, making them suitable for service tasks. In such applications, humanoids may be more acceptable than traditional machines. 
 But mass adoption as universal humanoid factory helpers or in private households will not happen within the near- and medium-term future. The 15th Five-Year plan sees the commercialization of humanoid robots rather towards the end of the plan´s period. Wide adoption of AI with traditional industrial robotics is expected over the next five to ten years.  
 China´s Domestic Market Potential 
 China’s huge domestic market offers enormous potential to implement their 15th Five-Year Plan across various branches: The share of local suppliers in domestic industrial robot installations increased from 30% in 2020 to 57% in 2024. For example, 64% of industrial robots in the global electronics industry are installed in China. Chinese manufacturers supply 59% of this industry. In the metal and machinery industry, Chinese robot suppliers even reached a domestic market share of 85%. 
 Contact 
 International Federation of Robotics PRESS OFFICER Carsten Heer phone +49 (0) 40 822 44 284 E-Mail: [email protected] 
 Downloads 
 Robotphoenix AGV 300 dpi (2.18 MB ) 
 IFR Pressemeldung 15. Fünfjahresplan China (259 KB ) 
 Facebook 
 LinkedIn 
 Jane Heffner is New President of International Federation of Robotics 
 US Robot Industry Returns to Double Digit Growth 
 IERA Award 2026 Goes to Flying Warehouse Robots by Verity from Switzerland 
 China Makes AI-powered Robots Core of National Strategy 
 Press Contact IFR 
 All press requests are handled by our press officer. 
 Carsten Heer 
 IFR Press Inquiries 
 Phone: +49 40-822 44 284 E-Mail: press(at)ifr.org 
 Dr. Susanne Bieller 
 IFR General Secretary 
 E-Mail: secretariat(at)ifr.org 
 Credits · Legal Disclaimer · Privacy Policy · World Robotics Terms of Usage · © IFR 2026 
 Privacy Settings 
 We use cookies on our website. Some of them are essential, while others help us to improve this website and your experience.
 Strictly necessary
 Analytics
 Privacy Policy 
 Save 
 Accept all 
