Welcome to English your way。today's topic is twenty percent hormu's fee dropped、 but oil、 market remains nervous。20%の料金所は一夜で撤去。それでも原油市場は静まらない。Here's。A quick preview。ポイント解説トランプ米大統領がホルムズ海峡を通る船から通行料20%を徴収すると発表しました。ところが、わずか一日で撤回され、原油価格は乱高下しました。市場はやや落ち着きを取り戻したように見えますが、緊張は本当に溶けたのでしょうか。Here are today's key phrases one blockade海上封鎖blockade。Two be in place実施中であるbe in place。Three freedom of navigation。高校の自由。freedom of navigation。Four toll booth料金所、 tole、 booth。Five smell of gunpowder。火薬の匂いsmell of gunpowder。Now、 the full story。Imagine A giant toll booth Suddenly appearing in the straight of Hormuz on July thirteen twenty twenty 6US president Donald Trump announced A new plan he wanted to collect、 twenty percent of all the value of cargo passing through the straight。he said the money would pay for keeping this important waterway safe、 but the plan was withdrawn just One Day、 later Gulf nations would instead seek trade and investment deals with United States。IT was unclear、 how much money was involved or which countries would take part the message changed overnight from pay twenty percent to pass to invest in the United States instead within。twenty four hours。the plan had changed completely、 but did the oil markets feel calmer only partly Brent crude oil had risen about ten percent the day before tensions between the United States and Iran were growing。The proposed、 twenty percent charge also shocked the market after the plan was cancelled、 oil fell from A daily high above eighty Seven dollars A barrel。however、 Brent closed AT eighty four dollars and seventy three cents on July。fourteen that was still about two percent higher and its highest level in A month the reason was simple the fee was gone、 but other dangers remained A blockade against ships linked to Iran was still in place。Military attacks were also continuing the market was not only worried about the cost of passing through the straight、 the bigger question was weather ships could pass through safely。Today's horma's risk points、 one one tanker could have paid almost thirty million dollars A fully loaded very large crew charrier could have faced A fee of about thirty million dollars。that is roughly four point nine billion yen the shipping industry had received no warning before the announcement IT was there、 for not surprising that the plan caused shock and serious doubts。Point two is A SEA tole legal on July thirteen。the International Maritime organization。repeated an important rule under international law ships passing through the straight of Hormuz should not pay tolls or transit fees the proposal did more than make markets？nervous IT also went directly against the basic principle of freedom of navigation。In one LINE。The tall booth sign is gone、 but the smell of gun powder、 still hangs over the straight。Changing the policy may calm the headlines、 but markets、 will not truly relax until ships can pass through the straight of Hormuz without fear。